Our first car was a 1990 Honda CRX Si. I didn't really know anything about cars when I bought it, and I got it because my friend had one and told me it would be a great car to kit. This was in 9th grade, and I had a math teacher who was selling his for $300, so my mom helped buy it for me. I started learning how to work on cars that way; I did small mods here and there just as I felt fit to get it into a good driving position before I got my driver's license. So, I had the car for about a year before I got my driver's license.

An opportunity came around where we had a family friend with an old Civic Si hatchback, and my friend with the CRX wanted the shell and was willing to swap the engine into my CRX for me because my engine had a piston ring leak, so I had burning oil. What he didn't tell me, or didn't know, was that the motor was actually a significant downgrade from what was in my CRX already. So, I ended up blowing that motor and having to sell the car for dirt cheap. I felt helpless because I didn't have any hand in getting the engine swapped, and so I didn't really know how to fix it at that point. So, I believed that the way to get rid of that problem was to learn more about cars so I could do it all on my own instead of depending on somebody else.

Fast forward a bit, I had a brand new 2006 Yamaha R6 Raven edition that I had convinced my grandmother to back me on financing, and I got bit further by the mod bug then. Unfortunately, I missed a payment and I was bad with financial management; it compounded over time and the bike got repoed without me knowing. I woke up one morning and found it was gone. I thought it was stolen and then figured out that the credit company took it back. During that time, I lived with roommates who also liked modifying vehicles—other motorcycles, a Chevelle, a Nova, a couple of Novas—and we formed a bit of an enthusiast group.

I ended up getting a 1990 Nissan 240SX from a coworker at a tattoo parlor. He thought the car was trashed; it wouldn't run, and because I had been working on cars a bit, I was able to diagnose that it was actually a pretty easy fix. So, I bought that car for $300 also. They made fun of me when I did—the sellers did—saying the car was really fast if you pushed it downhill. I did a tune-up, spark plugs, wires, oil change, and I drove that car for several years. I did a lot of mod work to it: put it on coilovers, replaced the clutch, did some aero stuff, tinted the windows, all sorts of stuff. I brought it with me from Florida to Hawaii when I joined the Navy. I ended up selling it in Hawaii because I still lived on base; it had a coolant leak, and I wasn't allowed to register the car on base with a coolant leak. I had just torn my ACL and it was a clutch vehicle, so I couldn't fix it, I couldn't drive it, and so I sold that for cheap as well.

Then, when I moved off base, I bought a 2003 Audi A4 that had some work done to it. When I realized I could buy it with low miles in my price range and it had work done, I had rose-colored glasses and ignored some of the signs of things going wrong on it. It was also my first European vehicle and I didn't have much experience with that, so that car decided for me what work needed to be done. When it decided, I opted for upgrades each time. I brought that car with me to Colorado when I got out of the Navy and ended up doing an engine swap on it—my first solo engine swap—and drove that car for a couple of years like that. It was a beast; I would say it was about 50% original by the time I was done. I had one fuel bug that I struggled with until the day that I wrecked it. When I wrecked it, I got a good payout from insurance and I sold the car as a parts car, and so I actually made good money on it. I got about $13,000 for a car that had a $4,000 blue book.

When I had the A4, I also got a 2013 Jeep Wrangler JKU because my Audi was down and I needed a daily, and that turned into an enthusiasm for building an off-road vehicle. I kept that for about five years. When I wrecked the A4, I got a 2008 335xi; high mileage, but an extremely well-cared-for and impressive and powerful vehicle. I did significant modifications on that, but it had some issues as a high-mileage Euro would, especially a Euro.

Before I sold that car, I also got a 1999 BMW Z3 Coupe. I found one in Florida, I flew out there, basically bought it sight unseen, and drove it back. It had significant issues that I was ignorant to troubleshoot at the time. It most certainly had some wreck damage that was not disclosed and maybe reassembled with the improper parts, causing severe rear misalignment, and I've done a lot of work to correct that. I have stripped this vehicle down to raw power, so there's no power steering, there's no air conditioning. I've stripped it down into a comfortable street-drivable track car, but it's only been on the track three times.

Then, when I sold the 335, I got a 2014 Audi S6 because I wanted a twin-turbo V8 before I felt gas-guzzling engines would start to phase out. I kept the S6 for a few years and then drove it to Indiana and Ohio when I was working out there, and then brought it back to Colorado when we moved to Fort Collins. I then traded it for a 2010 Camaro SS, and then traded the Camaro with a Jeep Cherokee 2008 and $3,000 cash for a 2016 BMW M235 xDrive. So currently I have the M235 and I have the Z3, although the Z3 is parked down at my mom's place.

My passion for vehicles and modifying them came from optimizing performance and being able to do it myself. If I had paid somebody else to do all the things that I had done, I never would have been able to do those things. So I taught myself how to do them so that I could maximize the amount of modifications that I could get for the money that I had. When I was a bachelor, I could devote any amount of my budget or income to my car, and a large amount of it went to that. I would build and buy things on a whim because I was chasing a passion or an obsession.

When I got married and had a kid, it was harder to allocate that budget. Even though I've been able to maintain the enthusiasm and I have a performance daily driver car and a performance track-focused car, I don't have the funds to upkeep them and modify them how I want, and I have to make significant compromises. Often times, I'm putting money into my daily driver to keep it functioning after driving with it malfunctioning for some time. And I haven't had any budget to put into the track car—so much so that it's still sitting at my mom's house. So I've failed to properly allocate funds for my passion, which is automotive enthusiasm and modifying vehicles. I've only been on a track three times despite my talent, drive, and desire to be racing more. I'm only getting older and feel like that's an opportunity that will eventually fade away, and I don't want to lose that, so I do simulation driving on my sim rig to try to help supplement my passion for racing and driving performance vehicles.

One thing that I've learned over all the cars that I have bought, owned, and sold is that maintenance early on in the vehicle's life sets the standard for how well that vehicle ages. They say "more power, more problems," and that's somewhat true, but if you get the basics of maintenance down right—preventative maintenance—then your vehicle will be more accepting of power upgrades. Unfortunately, people, myself included, when we get a vehicle we just focus on building it how we want and we're not so focused on keeping records or an accurate timeline, which would help both us while we continue to own the vehicle and anybody who owns it in the future.

My A4 was riddled with problems that I spent years chasing and justifying to use for upgrades. My S6 was a salvage rebuild and had its own problems, but it was expensive and troublesome to upkeep with preventative maintenance or to repair with proper parts, and that no doubt has an impact on how it's performing for its next owner. The M235 needed all four axles replaced, the fuel tank replaced, and the front tension struts all within the first six months of me taking possession of it. The Z3 had significant rear alignment issues likely due to improper parts being installed after a clandestine rebuild for a hidden accident that is still not known about. When I traded my S6, the new owner had to put $1,000 into fixing a catastrophic oil leak that happened within a month of him taking the car from me, and I had no idea. I wasn't hiding anything; I told him everything that I knew about the car and I did my best to keep that thing in good shape, and it still eluded me.

For these reasons, I want a better platform to manage track records and plan all of the things that are done to our vehicles. Those of us that have passion for automobiles want to know the history and the current state of the vehicles that they own. By doing so, we can be more efficient with our budget and our proactive and predictive maintenance and repairs. And if we can do that, not only will we offload a vehicle that the new owner can feel comfortable about taking on, but maybe we can share our automotive budget with additional desires like racing.